## **Things done as part of the project:**
1. 3 layers created: Controller, Service and Repository layer
2. H2 database is used for storing users and user types
3. User types are assumed to be metadata. As given in requirements PATIENT and DOCTOR user types are stored in DB.
4. In order to create usertypes, please run com.application.userservice.UserServiceApplicationTests.testLoadUserTypes test. This test's purpose is to create 2 user types.
5. In order to create users, please run com.application.userservice.UserServiceApplicationTests.testUserCreationAddition test.
6. com.application.userservice.UserServiceApplicationTests.testUserCreationAddition creates 1 user for each usertype. Totally 2 users.
7. The User Entity has FullName, Email, UserType(FK for UserType entity), Id, UserId, AuditFields(CreatedBy, CreatedDate, LastModifiedBy, LastModifiedDate).
8. Whenever User entity is created with fullName, email and existing usertype(metadata), the audit fields CreatedBy and CreatedDate are populated
9. Id and UserId are autogenerated using strategy AUTO.
10. User entity has OneToOne reference with UserType entity.
11. UserType entity has userTypeId(foreign key reference for User entity) and String type.
12. UserType should be created first through the mentioned integration test before running integration test to create User data.
13. The service layer has 2 services: UsersService and UserTypeService. (Named accordingly)
14. Both services have implementation classes with business logic methods.
15. Methods in Service classes help to expose following functionalities for Users resource.
    * Add users (http://localhost:8080/userservice/users) => has request body mapped to UserEntity
    * List users (http://localhost:8080/userservice/users) => uses Http Get
    * Get user by id (http://localhost:8080/userservice/users/{id}) => should give the long value from id field of User Entity and NOT the userId field value.
    * Update user (http://localhost:8080/userservice/updateusers/{id}) => same as Get user by id
    * Delete user (http://localhost:8080/userservice/deleteusers/{id}) => same as Get user by id
    * Generic search of user(s) (http://localhost:8080/userservice/searchusers/ => should have RequestBody with FullName. This functionality is developed only for searching through fullName or partial fullName due to time constraints.
16. Written basic Integration test and unit test due to time constraints
17. 1 Repositories extending CrudRepository for each entity User and UserType.
18. UserServiceController declares rest endpoints for the functionalities like mentioned above.
19. Error handling is done through GlobalExceptionHandler class. For now handling ResourceNotFoundException and general exception is considered internal server error for reducing scope of the project.(Time constraints)
20. Error response composes the error with its details for User experience.
21. Logging is done on controllers whenever an exception is thrown and debug enabled.

## **Things considered but NOT done as part of the project:**
1. Extensive unit and integration tests are not written to cover many scenarios.
2. Exception handling and logging is limited to certain rest points of controller to reduce scope of the project.
3. Unit tests are written but some spring related environment issues prevent it's success. Since spent time with other functionalities, have to skip this part. (com.application.userservice.unittests.UserServiceTest).
4. I have added more functionalities around UserType which is not asked but thought would be easy to extend the UserType functionality through this way. (UserTypeServiceImpl.java).
5. Added more user service related functionalities like bulk add which wasn't tested much due to time constraints.

